Flat profile:

Each sample counts as 0.01 seconds (sampling frequency. 0.01 seconds means 100 Hz sampling).
 (it means the profiler reads the binary in every 0.01 seconds through those instrumentation code)
  %   cumulative   self                self                  total
 time   seconds   seconds    calls   seconds/call         seconds/call          name
 67.29      8.95     8.95        6     8.95/6 = 1.49          1.49            new_func1
 21.50     11.81     2.86        2     1.43                   5.91            func1
 11.20     13.30     1.49        1     1.49                   1.49            func2

Explanations:
Profiler like gprof won't be able to see actual source code because it operates at the binary level. How does it know total calls?
Every 0.01 seconds, profile reads the binary information from the current binary snapshot.
When you compile your code with profiling options enabled (like -pg for gprof),
the compiler inserts additional instrumentation code into your program that records when certain functions are entered and exited.
Then, when you run your program, this instrumentation collects data about how much time is spent in each function,
how many times each function is called, and so on.

Don't want too high sampling frequency as it might impact the program's performance.


 each func1 calls new_func1 three times. Therefore, total seconds/call for func1 = 1.43 + 1.49*3 = 5.90.
 gprof reports 5.91. (maybe 0.01 extra milliseconds is time taken because of functions context switch)

 %         the percentage of the total running time of the
time       program used by this function.

cumulative a running sum of the number of seconds accounted
 seconds   for by this function and those listed above it.

 self      the number of seconds accounted for by this
seconds    function alone.  This is the major sort for this
           listing.

calls      the number of times this function was invoked, if
           this function is profiled, else blank.

 self      the average number of milliseconds spent in this
ms/call    function per call, if this function is profiled,
	   else blank.

 total     the average number of milliseconds spent in this
ms/call    function and its descendents per call, if this
	   function is profiled, else blank.

name       the name of the function.  This is the minor sort
           for this listing. The index shows the location of
	   the function in the gprof listing. If the index is
	   in parenthesis it shows where it would appear in
	   the gprof listing if it were to be printed.

Copyright (C) 2012-2023 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
notice and this notice are preserved.

		     Call graph (explanation follows)


granularity (or sampling accuracy): each sample hit covers 4 byte(s) for 0.08% of 13.30 seconds

index % time    self  children    called     name
                                                 <spontaneous>
[1]    100.0    0.00   13.30                 main [1]
                2.86    8.95       2/2           func1 [2]
                1.49    0.00       1/1           func2 [4]
-----------------------------------------------
                2.86    8.95       2/2           main [1]
[2]     88.8    2.86    8.95       2         func1 [2]
                8.95    0.00       6/6           new_func1 [3]
-----------------------------------------------
                8.95    0.00       6/6           func1 [2]
[3]     67.3    8.95    0.00       6         new_func1 [3]
-----------------------------------------------
                1.49    0.00       1/1           main [1]
[4]     11.2    1.49    0.00       1         func2 [4]
-----------------------------------------------



Explanation

0.08% of 13.30 = 0.01 seconds.

When the profiler takes a sample, it's essentially capturing the state of the program at that point in ti
me. This includes information like the current instruction being executed, the function call stack, and in some cases,
the memory addresses being accessed.

Each binary snapshot (i.e., the sample) contains function call stack information plus memory accessed information.
The memory accessed information are stored in 4 bytes. Profilers needs to map sample with memory to find memory related bugs for that sample.
When we say that each sample taken by the profiler is "associated with a specific 4-byte memory address range,"
it means that the profiler records information about memory accesses or modifications within a contiguous block of memory, where each block spans 4 bytes.

For example, a memory address range from address 0x1000 to address 0x1003 covers four consecutive bytes: 0x1000, 0x1001, 0x1002, and 0x1003.
When we specify a granularity of 4 bytes, it means that each sample taken by the profiler captures information about memory accesses or modifications within a block of memory spanning 4 bytes.

d(accuracy * granularity)/d(quality) = 0. But they don't get optimized this way. Rather Profiling tools are often developed and
refined through empirical evaluation and testing. Developers test see the profiling accuracy, overhead, and usability, and then they set those frequency and granularity.

Finer granularity means it should capture less than 4 bytes of memory.


The call graph provides a hierarchical representation of function calls during program execution, along with the associated time spent in each function and its children functions.

The index column assigns a unique identifier to each function in the call graph.

%Time     This column indicates the percentage of total execution time spent in each function and its children functions.
          For example, in the top-level function main, 100% of the total execution time is spent within the function itself (self).

Spontaneous lable: This label indicates that the function is called without an explicit caller, often used for functions called directly from the operating system or runtime environment.

 This table describes the call tree of the program, and was sorted by
 the total amount of time spent in each function and its children.

 Each entry in this table consists of several lines.  The line with the
 index number at the left hand margin lists the current function.
 The lines above it list the functions that called this function,
 and the lines below it list the functions this one called.
 This line lists:
     index	A unique number given to each element of the table.
		Index numbers are sorted numerically.
		The index number is printed next to every function name so
		it is easier to look up where the function is in the table.

     % time	This is the percentage of the `total' time that was spent
		in this function and its children.  Note that due to
		different viewpoints, functions excluded by options, etc,
		these numbers will NOT add up to 100%.

     self	This is the total amount of time spent in this function.

     children	This is the total amount of time propagated into this
		function by its children.

     called	This is the number of times the function was called.
		If the function called itself recursively, the number
		only includes non-recursive calls, and is followed by
		a `+' and the number of recursive calls.

     name	The name of the current function.  The index number is
		printed after it.  If the function is a member of a
		cycle, the cycle number is printed between the
		function's name and the index number.


 For the function's parents, the fields have the following meanings:

     self	This is the amount of time that was propagated directly
		from the function into this parent.

     children	This is the amount of time that was propagated from
		the function's children into this parent.

     called	This is the number of times this parent called the
		function `/' the total number of times the function
		was called.  Recursive calls to the function are not
		included in the number after the `/'.

     name	This is the name of the parent.  The parent's index
		number is printed after it.  If the parent is a
		member of a cycle, the cycle number is printed between
		the name and the index number.

 If the parents of the function cannot be determined, the word
 `<spontaneous>' is printed in the `name' field, and all the other
 fields are blank.

 For the function's children, the fields have the following meanings:

     self	This is the amount of time that was propagated directly
		from the child into the function.

     children	This is the amount of time that was propagated from the
		child's children to the function.

     called	This is the number of times the function called
		this child `/' the total number of times the child
		was called.  Recursive calls by the child are not
		listed in the number after the `/'.

     name	This is the name of the child.  The child's index
		number is printed after it.  If the child is a
		member of a cycle, the cycle number is printed
		between the name and the index number.

 If there are any cycles (circles) in the call graph, there is an
 entry for the cycle-as-a-whole.  This entry shows who called the
 cycle (as parents) and the members of the cycle (as children.)
 The `+' recursive calls entry shows the number of function calls that
 were internal to the cycle, and the calls entry for each member shows,
 for that member, how many times it was called from other members of
 the cycle.

Copyright (C) 2012-2023 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
notice and this notice are preserved.

Index by function name

   [2] func1                   [4] func2                   [3] new_func1
